What is Encapsulation?
a) the process which private variables and public methods are integrated together.

Why Java is called platform-independent?
Java is called platform-independent because the byte code generated by the JDK (Java Development Kit) 
can be executed by the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) on any platform regardless of the operating system.

Why Java is not entirely object-oriented?
Java is not entirely object-oriented since it uses eight primitive data types that are not objects: boolean,
byte, char, int, float, double, long, and short.

Q)What is the main difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM?
A) JDK (Java Development Kit) is for development, JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is for running Java applications, and JVM 
(Java Virtual Machine) is an execution environment for running Java bytecode.

Q)Explain the main features of Java.
A)Object-oriented, Platform-independent, Simple, Secure, Portable, Robust, Multithreaded, High Performance, Distributed.

Q) Why java is Rubost?
A)Java is robust because it utilizes strong memory management.There is automatic garbage collection in Java which runs
on the Java Virtual Machine to eliminate objects which are not being accepted by a Java application anymore.

Q)What is multithreading in java?
A)Multithreading is a programming concept in which the application can create a small unit of tasks to execute in parallel.
If you are working on a computer, it runs multiple applications and allocates processing power to them. A simple program runs
in sequence and the code statements execute one by one. Example( if your are running a code in VS when you type a static it will
pop up with all the static words and sametime it willshow if you have any error. That is done by multi threading).

q)3. Difference between Heap and Stack Memory in java. And how java utilizes this.
Stack memory is the portion of memory that was assigned to every individual program. And it was fixed. On the other hand, Heap memory
is the portion that was not allocated to the java program but it will be available for use by the java program when it is required,
mostly during the runtime of the program.

Q) Pointers are used in C/ C++. Why does Java not make use of pointers?
Pointers are quite complicated and unsafe to use by beginner programmers. Java focuses on code simplicity, and the 
usage of pointers can make it challenging. Moreover, security is also compromised if pointers are used because the users can directly 
access memory with the help of pointers Moreover, the usage of pointers can make the procedure of garbage collection quite slow and
erroneous.

7. What do you understand by an instance variable and a local variable?
A) Instance variables are those variables that are accessible by all the methods in the class. They are declared outside the methods and 
inside the class. 
Local variables are those variables present within a block, function, or constructor and can be accessed only inside them. The utilization 
of the variable is restricted to the block scope.

8)What are the default values assigned to variables and instances in java?
There are no default values assigned to the variables in java. We need to initialize the value before using it. Otherwise,
it will throw a compilation error of (Variable might not be initialized). 
But for instance, if we create the object, then the default value will be initialized by the default constructor 
depending on the data type. 

9) What do you mean by data encapsulation?
Data Encapsulation is an Object-Oriented Programming concept of hiding the data attributes and their behaviours.We 
are binding the data with the methods. only way we can use the data is by using methods.Outside world cannot use it directly.
we are encapsulationg data and methods.

10)What is a singleton in Java?
A singleton class in Java ensures only one instance of itself exists. To make one, create a class with a private static instance 
variable and a private constructor. Then, provide a public static method to access the instance. This method checks if the instance
exists; if not, it creates one

11) what is rest api?
A) rest api is used to transfer the data from domain to another domain via http protacol.

12) difference between SOAP and rest?
A) Soap is used to transfer data from one domain to other when application is in XML based.
Rest api is used to transfer the data from domain to another domain via http protacol when application is in xml, json and test..

13) What is XML?
a) when we write a angular code and in backend if we write java then there should be common language to communicate 
so they use Xml. But xml is very complex so now a days they are using JSON as common language.

14) what is put and patch?
A) put is used to update the resource and create a new resource aswell.you need to send the all the  attributes in the body. 
If that attribute need update it will update all the attribute.
Patch: If you have 50 attributes and you want to upddate the phonenumber than we use patch. No need to send the all the attributes
in the body. 

15) what is idompotent?
a) In general words idompotent means unchangable operation. though u send multiple request the result will be same.
Get - Is Idompotent: It is used for read only operations. Though we send multple request it won't change anything.
Post- is not idompotent: Used to create a new object or resource. when you create a eployee object first time it will
creae and again if you send the same employee again it will create that object.
Put: Is it Idompotent: If you update anything for first requeste it will update for second request it is unchangable.
Delete: It is idompotent: 


16) Http status code?
A) 200 (Success/OK) The HTTP status code 200 represents success which means the page you have requested has been fetched. ...
301 (Permanent Redirect) ...
302 (Temporary Redirect) ...
304 (Not Modified) ...
400 (Bad Request) ...
401 (Unauthorized Error) ...
403 (Forbidden) ...
404 (Not Found)
500 server error

17)what is memory leak in java?
A) Java has inbuild memory management. This will be done by garbage collection. Jvm decides when to run the garbage collector
which will remove the unused objects and reclaim the memory for presenting objects.
Objects which are no longer used and present in the heap and garbage collector unable to remove that is know as memory leak.
This happend because of unclosed resources when Failure to close resources such as files, streams, or database connections after
they are used can lead to memory leaks.
Using more static references which has lifespan throught the application and more use of callback references.

18) what is final, finally and finalized.
A) final and finally is  a keyword whereas fininalized is a method.
Final: We can use final with the variables which will be constants.If we use final with the class it will stop inherientence.
If we use finalin the methods it will stop overriding.
Finally is used to close the resources. If we want to connect to database after use we need to close the connection that can be 
done by Finally.
Finalized method: this method is used when the garbage collector is elimating the unwanted objected before to that we use 
finalized method.

19) Method Overloading:
Definition: Method overloading occurs when a class has multiple methods with the same name but different parameters
(number, type, or both).
Method Overriding:
Definition: Method overriding occurs when a subclass provides a specific implementation for a method that is already defined in 
its superclass. The method signature (name, return type, and parameters) must be the same in both the superclass and the subclass.

Java 8 and 11?
The appletviewer tool is available in Java 8.   The appletviewer tool is not available in Java 11.
java 8 have It has fewer string methods.	java 11 have Several new methods of String such as isBlank(), lines(), repeat(n), and many more
Java 8 has  lambda expressions, no special variables are used.. Java 11 In lambda expressions, var variables are used.
java 8 Pattern recognition is not possible.  java 11 With the help of the asMatchPredicate() method, pattern recognition is possible
java 8 It has less garbage collector memory .. java 11 more garbage collection
java 8 Var keyword is not available.  java 11 Var keyword is available in Java 11, which is termed as a developer-friendly keyword.
